well ceasefire negotiations in Qatar
have resumed with Israel indicating that
talks could last another two weeks the
country's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is facing growing criticism
over his handling of the war against
Hamas that criticism coming from abroad
and domestically on Sunday the families
of hostages who are being held in Gaza
protested in Tel Aviv they accused the
government of not doing enough to bring
their relatives
home
well now a Alani is a former Qatari
defense intelligence director he joins
us from Doha welcome to the W now we
know Israel has rejected hamas's
ceasefire proposal though it has sent a
delegation to uh Qatar to continue uh
talks even as Benyamin Netanyahu talks
about launching a ground operation in
Rafa so how far are the two sides away
from each
other well thank you for having me Phil
uh to be honest right now things are
very murky on the uh situation in Gaza
because we've got this new incursion
into the um Al shifa hospital and the
threat of uh invading or land Warfare uh
on on Rafa uh now obviously the qari and
American negotiators the sponsors of
these negotiations play this very close
to their vest so there are not not a lot
of details but uh um if we've seen what
happened in the past the qaris remain
optimistic they remain hopeful that
before the Eid celebrations which will
be in 3 weeks uh that there may be a uh
resolution to the uh situation right now
and hopefully a Sease fire
and do you think that Israel wants to
get its hostages back through diplomatic
means rather than military they I've
seen speculation that the Prime Minister
would prefer to get the hostages back
militarily rather than by negotiation
because a military Victory would defeat
Hamas where a negotiated uh hostage
return would allow Hamas to
rearm well that is confusing uh to be
honest Phil because on net uh the
attempts by the IDF to rescue um Israeli
hostages have yielded more uh hostages
killed then rescued yes there were some
attempts that um had suc eded but on
that again more killed than rescued on
the other hand the negotiations have
released tens over a 100 uh of the
hostages so it it is confusing to see
that uh continuing to endanger the
civilians and the hostages in Gaza seems
to be the order of the day with the IDF
it probably may be uh driven by internal
politics rather than Global rationale to
end uh the war and save the hostages and
rescue obviously even the the civilians
who right now and the numbers in front
of me over 31,000 killed and over 70
3,000 wounded this is really a dial
situation and it is confusing now Hamas
of course is is looking for the
withdrawal of Israeli troops from Gaza
and the release of prisoners from Israel
How likely are they to get what they
want well what I can say is what has
been already mentioned by by for
instance the Qatari negotiators Qatar is
pushing both sides both the Israelis and
Hamas urging them to be at the
negotiation negotiating table and to re
and to reach a resolution not for any
political goal for either party but for
the safety of the hostages and the
civilian population of Gaza now there
are calculations on both sides however I
think the ultimate goal must be
something that all parties interested
should push for and that's what the
qataris have been doing and the
Americans who are sponsoring again these
negotiations okay good talking to you
thank you so much for uh for joining us
former Qatari defense intelligence
director naaf Al thank
you